Stereo Mix_mono.wav|The Gemara says in Yoma and sitting in Yeshiva, as it is stated. And Avraham was old, advanced in years. And the same applies And so too in the land of Egypt. For the tribe of Levi, Torah that because of it even Pharaoh, King Which is why he told them, Rather he told them, why are you mixing Go to your burdens, you study Torah, do as I wish with the other Jews. And seemingly this had a place in nature, one slave was able to escape from Egypt. And especially considering that according there had to be 400 years of slavery, to do as he said to our father Avraham, King of Egypt, who was a very smart and especially in Zohar. And as we know plainly as well was the center of all wisdoms. And his argument was also a logical portion, that even in the land of Egypt and all the work they subjected them you are allowed to learn Torah. Why aren't you focused on your task of Hashem who said 400 years, toil and devote your energy to Torah study and the other Jews to how things But this was the argument the whole redemption to be lost. Because it says that he Michilta states that on this like the blink of an eye. And it says the reason why this sudden the blink of an eye. Because if another blink of an eye the Jewish people would no longer ever Therefore they had to seize to merit the redemption and not remain And this is also a lesson for our days. There are some who think I have saved and I can sit and learn Torah matter to me how another Jew is behaving? Whether he keeps the 248 positive mitzvahs whether he devotes his energy and what King of Egypt, to build physical things. Pisum and Ramses. The nature of physicality is if it has In that case, as the Midrash Because as they built the opening of the And why was it called Ramses? Because as they built, Mis maams nis, Ramses, they didn't last. And then he cannot save himself are guarantors for one another. Regarding this, the Rebbe, my Father for one's fellow Jew doesn't who one can and is friends with. Rather, it means even a Jew and whom you have never met. The Mitzvah of Ahavas Yisroel And not just ordinary Rather, it must be like yourself. Just as you like yourself without measure your Ahavas Yisrael be for another Jew. And what does this love consist of? That since you go to your burdens, of Torah and the tent of Mitzvahs. When it comes to Torah and mitzvahs too, So just as you must fight for and so too every Jew who knows about it, the ability, and when they come to him from potential to actuality, he can be free and be able to teach your to Yisroel, which the verse And this was their reward while in the land of Egypt. And this is also a lesson for those in particular, and especially the Yeshiva those who find themselves in a corner mitzvahs, that their Torah study cannot be cannot be complete, Jewish People are one whole body. When this part isn't yet complete in Mitzvah observance. And therefore, when he is told, listen, and let another Jew behave And it follows logically if it is the case to jump into a fire, Rahman al Islam, whether the law permits him to save him, else's private affairs, to jump into the fire and save him. It's obvious, and we see, that when, God forbid, such a thing whether it's acceptable according to Rather, the first thing is to ensure though it's only a matter of life when both are at stake, life in the world The first thing is that you must save And afterward, when you have him if there is no other choice, with him who is right and who is wrong. And this argument that I have saved myself of your tribes down to your woodcutters all stand before Hashem, your God. And then we see that one is on a parade of the ordinary soldiers isn't dressed It's not just the ordinary soldier The main punishment is reserved for not setting up the army in such a way that from head to foot he must completely the way one stands before his king, and And this is the lesson we are saying You can't make a distinction and say that you can save this one, Rahman al Itzlan There is no such And therefore, just like one the other one too, and his family. And we are assured that if only we do One, blessed be he, does not confront And since Hashem said that one must love on the other end of the world, and has the ability to do so. Like the well known saying. The Rebbe once related that the Magid he kisses a safer Torah, he he should as his Rebbe the BAAL Shem Tov And here there is an added part also that if the BAAL Shem Tov in this world Jews near, drawing near simple people, his love and closeness would And this is demanded of us. Even if one doesn't feel it, Being connected to every Jew, And this is something that can't be pushed or until tomorrow, because no one with us knows how long it's in which he will decide that in this and redoubled exile for the Or Rachmanelitzlan the opposite. And we conclude on a positive note.
Stereo Mix (1)_mono.wav|The daily Sicha Wednesday, 1 of the teachings is on the verse, who perform tasks in mighty waters. The Rebbe the Nasi cites that the plain meaning of aniois is ships, but it's also it's in Lashan Kodesh, the holy language, where it's not that it what a given word should mean. Rather, it's called lashan kodesh, which was given from above to below, determined by people's agreement. So it's understood that when a single word that there's a connection between them. In this teaching, the BAAL Shem Tov says from the expression ta'ania va'aniya And he explained, refers to the souls which was above, And it descends from a high roof top into the body in this physical world. And the world is like a sea with mighty be careful not to drown. So here in those who go down to the sea, there are two kinds of anios. There are some who come down and their a way that the body is a ship being harmed by the waters of the sea. And to the contrary, travel and reach his destination. There are some souls whose descent it causes them pain and lamenting. They have tremendous pain from the waters is a descent for the sake of ascent. And as discussed earlier, them, to make a dwelling for him not only does the ship, the body, but also causes him pain and lamenting, And to this the verse goes meaning there are some whose mission is themselves in the mighty waters, they don't drown, but they That's the content of the And this is also a general lesson There are some for whom it's enough they can only manage themselves. There are some who can't even manage certainly can't help someone else. There are some whose mission is not only they, but to be also the ones who perform to be able to help those who are drowning so that the mighty waters will not be able as the Midrash says, and the Jewish people's love for Hashem, help from someone else. And this is also the lesson discussed these three categories. Seemingly each one can decide and say for whom the aniya means pain. He is suffering, he can't make it. And therefore, since he can't Let someone else help him. And similarly, someone in the first those who go down to the sea in ships, and arrive intact and nothing will harm And even someone in the third category, thinks to himself, since he is successful think about taking care of himself? Let him take care of the world. And as for himself, what of it? Of what significance is an individual of the entire world? So when he is asked what's happening he has to make sure that there's If Rahman Alitzlan there's a war, He has to make sure no He is asked, very good. You're one who performs You're saving the entire world. But what's happening with those who go with your own ship and your own And then additionally, with those in your own four cubits? They're not in the mighty waters in middle the whole world, occupy ourself with That too is as though he And this is why all three categories And we are told that it's not half of the verse, and another who learns the second half tasks in mighty waters. Rather, every Jew, any verse that Moshe All three aspects appear And then when all three are emphasized he learns Torah and keeps mitzvahs He looks around to see whether there isn't but in the same ship they have hardships. True, it's his ship. He's the head of the household, the head of the shoal, etc. For him, the aniya may be a ship, he's drilling into the ship And he argues that this is his seat So he is in charge of it He is told, I'm also sitting in this ship, intact if it allows someone else to make an amount of money for it And then every Jew, as the Rebbe, individual is a community. It's impossible these days. Just like we were always obligated to give so we are obligated to give spiritual tasks in mighty waters. And since he goes on a mission of Hashem, those on a mission to perform It's impossible that he will be harmed Jew from the mighty waters. Those on a mission to perform And on the contrary, And this is also why we were made aware BAAL Shem Tov so many years ago. After he said it, many generations passed, And then from memory it was put in writing for generations that every Jew has And since he has this power, his privilege to be among those who go to be involved in both kinds of the anios the part of the body associated and lamenting, and the part of the body of the heart is the aniya And then every Jew has an impact. It's impossible that the The philosophers say that when a person there's a change in the temperature Because the entire world is one. It can't be otherwise. When there's a change in one part there must be a change So everyone can become one Just that someone who can't do a lot obligation with a little. A wealthy person who brought the offering satisfied his obligation. He must bring the offering of a wealthy So that, as mentioned I will thank you, Hashem, When one sees the good fruits of his labor Mitzvahs? Offspring blessed by Hashem, And your children refers to students, see what I have raised. And very soon, as the Rebbe, he will go out with them all to welcome that these are the legions of Hashem.
Stereo Mix (2)_mono.wav|The daily Sicha Thursday Parshasvera 23rd of Tevis among the discussed on Chayel to study in order to complete them. For 24th of Tevis was dividing up Orach, which were among the merits. The altar Rebbe listed 10 merits, the Shulchan Orach and the Tanya. In them we also see how much he devoted from the time of the BAAL Shem Tov onward. Like the well known story of Chayel at the time that when the Baal Shem Tov which was 18 before he revealed himself, of Hidden Tzadikim, old, to devote themselves to Jewish Since Jews at the time were scattered and inns and even lone homes, Jewish education in all those places. And as the Rebbe related in the Sichah, to the extent that they also decided teachers, the Hidden Tzadikim themselves to teaching the nation wisdom. And so too the Rebbe concludes himself immediately incorporated this, city where it was possible But he wanted to personally So he became a teacher's helper, according to their level, Shmeiraba and even teaching Kamaz Aleph. And he later related after he revealed disciples the great pleasure he had during young children, caused in heaven from the Heish Meiraba direction, as mentioned in the story, himself as an educator and leader and for Jewish leaders already. Then he became this task And similarly, regarding the Altar Rebbe, to matters of education, settlements where Jews were scattered, published materials and writings there are in Yiddish, because the one receiving Lashana Kodesh personally wrote the letter to him and to the extent that the letter is still the same applies to the Sefer Tanya as we discussed that it should be completed this was fulfilled. We know the story told by Hasidim the Tanya with Shar ha Yichud Vehemuna with Chaot Lenaar al P Darko educate And this is also proven from the fact the service of love and the service of awe explained in the future tense, awe appears in the first part of Tanya. This proves that when the Altar Rebbe introduction, it was before he This doesn't contradict the fact that when the first time, the first part was printed vehemuna because when you think about which talks about how an oath is be a tzadik and do not be a Rasha, mother's womb, and Shah Yechud v'amuna educate the child. This itself indicates that in man's because the oath administered to him is the child is in his mother's When does the service performed It begins with educating the child meaning he has a way and you have to adapt for him to absorb it, and Rambam's Hakdamma to Perek Chylek, he must engage the child in the studies namely his love for money, drink, which is according to his level. This shows that the child is already attention, his service will already be even though he lacks thought, whereas when the oath is administered womb, which is before his service, Accordingly, it emerges that the beginning which is the primary focus of the Tanya, how to serve Hashem, the ways of service. It emerges that after the introduction educating the child according to his way. And here the Rebbe adds in a length explanation that although the word education is used regarding but as Siddis clarifies, there's education Just that with regards to oneself And this was followed by the printing which discusses the specific And as mentioned many times, and Hasidis, it must also be reflected And the truth is, of education to adults as well. Because when the Gemara interprets the different opinions here, or age 24, the various opinions that it's while your hand is still on your over the child's neck, then he must take the opportunity because later he won't listen. So this itself proves that the truth is years too, just that since there's block before a blind person, therefore there's no obligation But the reality exists, clearly that even when a Jew is 70 years it's still possible, the problem of placing a stumbling block you can educate him too in matters which is also the general idea of rebuking that applies concerning every Jew, is to set him upon To be continued.
Stereo Mix (3)_mono.wav|The Daily Sicha Friday Parshas Vera, And so too, upon completing the entire by his sons, the Rabbanim, sections of Tanya is the letter starting Seemingly this letter discusses the service of Tefillah, letter of Iger Sakodesh. So seemingly it's not understood Seemingly it should have come following Tefillah next to Tefillah. But this is also the culmination. Their end is embedded in their beginning the culmination. After all the study and contemplation sections of Tanya, one might think that he has become a complete Tzadik. And now he has nothing more to do. Now the Altar Rebbe concludes that there And he further adds that it's possible, that he will be rebuked 99 times and it times, and then it will have an effect like the well known teaching brought and in other places it appears in the name of the Mishnah, a vessel completed in True, he's a vessel, and a vessel He did everything he had to do as everything in a manner of purity. But since he thinks and knows, he's a vessel completed, that itself proves that for sacred And as explained regarding the intentions the same letters as habital nullification. Because if he had bittal properly, a vessel completed in purity, completion, that his form This is why the conclusion of the entire which generally is expressed in the verse, And as it says in the altar Rebbe's letter it's not as a decree and by force. Rather, as the Rebbe would often repeat, in a peaceful way, beginning with Nefesh Hashephelah, Even though for a child there can be together with kindness. He's a child of Avraham, And all Jews are called daughter that there are three Avos patriarchs. The attribute of the Jewish people we see that they perform acts of kindness. And this provides the way that when you of the mind, then he will gain. He will be redeemed from the confines And this is also the letter beginning concludes with the topic of Shabbos. And within Shabbos itself, as discussed in the Mimer today and also where he explains the difference There's a level where one's mind or as it's called Kabbalistic terms, is that he gets angry But when he gains more intellect, And even when he does get angry, to claim, to claim his anger. And even when he's angry, it's also But this is all still intellect He explains there that the righteous shall shall grow like a cedar in Lebanon is like weekdays and Shabbos. There are six weekdays But within those emotions we draw down, And as the Rambam writes, it's And Shabbos was given It draws down the wisdom of Torah But that is Torah as it is Within the six days of the week, And that even when he does get angry, And even during his anger, it's limited. But that's not the expanse of intellect. It's only intellect as clothed or it's called Yisroel Zuta. But there is the level of Yisrael Saba, of Chachma, and even higher the level calling the Shabbos delight, the inner aspect of Atik, and the inner aspect And to this it says, When there is education, young child, as it says in the laws years old and before that three years old, there is already His father teaches him Torah. But it continues for the rest of his life and the second and the third and the At that point, it's still possible, to feel that one is a vessel completed But when he immerses for sacred use Tvila letters as habital nullification, the inner aspect of Shabbos, When Za, the level of emotions, head as it now ascends above and beyond the inner aspect of Atik. And you shall call Shabbos And then continuing from the time the Mulava Malka, of whom it says, my servant David That is Mashiach, who is the final And Moshe was a shepherd, Both of them were tested with sheep. This was the test through which they were This is how they became In the days of your exodus So too David was the shepherd to the land, when they had to prepare And this is also the final Redeemer, of the final Redeemer, And he will redeem us and lead
Stereo Mix (4)_mono.wav|Monday Parshas Bo, 27th of Tevis. Then additionally, based on the teachings of the altar Rebbe, which was repeated many times by the Nasi the Rebbe my Father in Law, and disseminated that one must live And here there is also the lesson in the time of Rava de Raven Mincha, of the month of Shvat. And then it continues on Moitzi Shabbos, of the week of Parshas Bo. The plain meaning of the verse is for I have hardened his heart, numerous miracles and signs and wonders, but but to the contrary, The written Torah says And as mentioned earlier, Even the Gentile nations understand, translated into their language, including the plain sense, also the difference when it comes can only study their seven Mitzvahs. But it doesn't apply as much, it doesn't apply at all to learning that they know of it and utilize it. The lesson from the Sidra is that the fact Chaz v Shalom because he had control over and argue in such a way that Pharaoh's Rather, it says, And this isn't to make the work more to reveal so that I may demonstrate these and in that way that can be seen that could be seen throughout the entire more miraculous conduct. This was the sole intent This applies to the Pharaoh saying the Jewish people, difficult through limitations Mitzrayim constraints, inclination tries to convince him that of by the rain of the heavens it will which applies to Eret Yisrael, wanted to with your feet, feet, man's foot was enough to provide all of man's needs. He isn't deterred by it, he transforms it to the extent that since he doesn't have free will, to harden his heart for the purpose given of Parshas Bow, or Hashem decides that, all the end times have passed and the time for the true and complete redemption. A Jew is told that even though we are and the darkness of exile is in a manner only because I have hardened his heart. It is not real darkness. It is not Chaz v shalom something that has the things that distract and conceal. It's only as it says in Tanya, child of the King of Kings, the Holy One, Hashem has given him from their potential and perform his service of obliterating remnants of the walls of Ex. And it should be in such a way that you of holiness, a trap in which there is no grain, like an abyss without fish, based on this teaching of our sages. And then Hashem's salvation is like in the days of your exodus And as Rashi also brings down in his that once the end time arrived, even like the blink of an eye, and like it was in the days of your exodus Jewish people left triumphantly. And just like this is a lesson service, we also derive And here are people who are confused everything that happened, Pharaoh's heart is hardened and makes all as mentioned earlier, when nations A Jew might Chaz v'shalom be afraid the Torah, turning away from Eret Yisroel, are upon it from the beginning of the year where Hashem's divine providence But the truth is, at the beginning of Parshas Bo Fortunate of the Shofar Hashem, may they walk When the Jewish people walk in the light following the path of Torah, and which illuminates one's path in life, countenance, conducting themselves this all the more so when it comes to matters all the more when it comes to things that The same law applies even regarding at length, in accordance with the clear Orach Hachaim, in the laws of Shabbos and likewise elsewhere, when they walk in the light of your not Chaz v Shalom with the mistaken belief has made this well for me, then they The blasting a horn being is one to frighten the enemy and foe so that they with, which happens by instilling in them in the literal sense, meaning of shofar blowing, as Rabbi Saad Yagon explains, a king on the third day, increasingly louder very much, people then, as the Zohar explains, to Paro, the great sea monster, rivers and transforms everything. Since the Jewish people follow the clear walking in the light of your countenance, lighting up and showing the way to follow to the Shulchan Orach, the Shulchan Orach requires and gives and horses, including blasting horns of a shofar frightening the enemy. Then when one knows that this is and since it's a halacha, this itself instills fear and dread, on its own accord, Chaz v Shalom, and it's in order to perform And how does it come about by the Jew a test to arrive at the clear decision and runs the great sea monster He is the one who leads every Jew and all that the eyes of Hashem your g d are upon to the end of the year. Then they prepare the weapons, with which the literal blast can be blown, because the darkness will be transformed and we will have the land in its complete state, walking in the light